The late afternoon sun cast long, warm shadows down the front road as Tiffany and Maya walked side-by-side. The rhythm of their footsteps hitting the pavement was steady, punctuated by the easy flow of their conversation.

“Seriously though,” Maya laughed, swinging her backpack slightly as she gestured with one hand, “I think Mrs. Davison actually gave us extra credit just because we remembered to take out the recycling bins on time.”

Tiffany rolled her eyes playfully, but a genuine smile touched her lips. “Don’t get used to it. We’re doing all the favors for the neighborhood kids this week.” She nudged Maya gently with her elbow. “You know, you should have seen your face when Mr. Harrison realized you were right about the mitochondria structure. Priceless.”

Maya stuck out her tongue at her best friend. “Hey, I use my knowledge! It’s called being smart, Tiff. You just… absorb things until they stick.”

They passed the corner where the sidewalk curved sharply before straightening again toward the main street. A few sprinklers were kicking up small arcs of spray from the lawn across the way, catching the sunlight in momentary rainbows.

“It’s more than just absorbing,” Tiffany countered smoothly, slowing her pace slightly to match Maya’s stride. “Sometimes it’s about connecting the dots that others miss. Like how you noticed the pattern in those old poetry books last month? That was pure observation.”

Maya paused her teasing, considering that. The light breeze rustled the ends of her dark brown hair. “Well, yeah. But mostly, I was bored. And you guys always leave me hanging while you two are talking about some deep literary theory stuff.”

Tiffany laughed, a warm, bright sound. “We talk about everything, May. Sometimes we just get lost in our own bubble.” She glanced down at the dog tags she wore around her neck, fiddling with the familiar weight of them for a brief moment before letting her hand fall away. “Anyway, we should probably head up this block soon if we want to beat the traffic near the main road.”

The houses started to become more spaced out as they moved past the immediate cluster of neighbors. They were still on the residential stretch leading toward their shared neighborhood boundary.
